---
date: 2020-12-08
authors:
  - elixir
original_url: node/357
hide:
  - toc
---

# ELIXIR Estonia Services Terms of Use

<p><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia Services Terms of Use</b></p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<ol>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia promotes open science through its mission to provide freely available online bioinformatics software and databases to allow the largest possible community to benefit from these resources. Where we present scientific data generated by others we impose no additional restriction on the use of the contributed data than those provided by the data owner.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia expects appropriate attribution (e.g. in publications, services, or products) for any of its online services in accordance with good scientific practice.&nbsp;</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Any feedback provided to ELIXIR Estonia on its services will be treated as non-confidential unless the individual or organisation providing the feedback states otherwise.&nbsp;</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia is not liable for any loss or damage.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Personal data held by ELIXIR Estonia will only be released in exceptional circumstances when required by law or judicial or regulatory order. ELIXIR Estonia may make information about the total volume of usage of particular software or data available to the public and third-party organisations without details of any individual’s use.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Any questions or comments concerning these Terms of Use can be addressed to:&nbsp; ELIXIR Estonia, University of Tartu, Institute of Computer Science, Narva mnt 18, Tartu, Estonia; <a href="mailto:elixir@ut.ee">elixir@ut.ee</a></b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Users of ELIXIR Estonia online services agree not to attempt to use any ELIXIR Estonia computers, files, or networks apart from through the service interfaces provided.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia’s websites gather information about users solely to improve the usability and usefulness of the site, and not for any commercial purposes. No contact information is collected, except when directly provided by the users themselves, e.g. contact information provided through the contact form or email. Other information collected during the course of your usage of the site, such as pages visited, may be collected in server log files and used for aggregated statistical analysis of traffic patterns.&nbsp;&nbsp;</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia will make all reasonable effort to maintain continuity of these online services and provide adequate warning of any changes or discontinuities. However, ELIXIR Estonia accepts no responsibility for the consequences of any temporary or permanent discontinuity in service.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Activities that may impact the stable operation of our services such as systematic or automated queries and downloads, automated submissions, etc. using other mechanisms than the ones provided by us are prohibited and may result in blocking your access to our services.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">If you post or send offensive, inappropriate or objectionable content anywhere on or to our websites or otherwise engage in any disruptive behaviour on any of our services, we may use your personal information from our security logs to stop such behaviour. Where we reasonably believe that you are or may be in breach of any applicable laws we may use your personal information to inform relevant third parties about the content and your behaviour.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">Software that can be run from the ELIXIR Estonia webpages may be used by any individual for any purpose unless specific exceptions are stated on the web page.</b></p>
	</li>
	<li dir="ltr">
	<p dir="ltr" role="presentation"><b id="docs-internal-guid-67202c5f-7fff-5fbb-eceb-a1290c18a5bb">ELIXIR Estonia does not accept responsibility for the consequences of any breach of the confidentiality of the ELIXIR Estonia site by third parties.</b></p>
	</li>
</ol>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

