# ELIXIR Estonia Services Terms of Use

1. ELIXIR Estonia promotes open science through its mission to provide freely
   available online bioinformatics software and databases to allow the largest
   possible community to benefit from these resources. Where we present
   scientific data generated by others we impose no additional restriction on
   the use of the contributed data than those provided by the data owner.

2. ELIXIR Estonia expects appropriate attribution (e.g. in publications,
  services, or products) for any of its online services in accordance with good
  scientific practice.

3. Any feedback provided to ELIXIR Estonia on its services will be treated as
   non-confidential unless the individual or organisation providing the feedback
   states otherwise.

4. ELIXIR Estonia is not liable for any loss or damage.

5. Personal data held by ELIXIR Estonia will only be released in exceptional
   circumstances when required by law or judicial or regulatory order. ELIXIR
   Estonia may make information about the total volume of usage of particular
   software or data available to the public and third-party organisations
   without details of any individual's use.

6. Any questions or comments concerning these Terms of Use can be addressed to:
   ELIXIR Estonia, University of Tartu, Institute of Computer Science,
   Narva mnt 18, Tartu, Estonia; [elixir@ut.ee](mailto:elixir@ut.ee)

7. Users of ELIXIR Estonia online services agree not to attempt to use any
   ELIXIR Estonia computers, files, or networks apart from through the service
   interfaces provided.

8. ELIXIR Estonia’s websites gather information about users solely to improve
   the usability and usefulness of the site, and not for any commercial
   purposes. No contact information is collected, except when directly provided
   by the users themselves, e.g. contact information provided through the
   contact form or email. Other information collected during the course of your
   usage of the site, such as pages visited, may be collected in server log
   files and used for aggregated statistical analysis of traffic patterns.

9. ELIXIR Estonia will make all reasonable effort to maintain continuity of
   these online services and provide adequate warning of any changes or
   discontinuities. However, ELIXIR Estonia accepts no responsibility for the
   consequences of any temporary or permanent discontinuity in service.

10. Activities that may impact the stable operation of our services such as
    systematic or automated queries and downloads, automated submissions, etc.
    using other mechanisms than the ones provided by us are prohibited and may
    result in blocking your access to our services.

11. If you post or send offensive, inappropriate or objectionable content
    anywhere on or to our websites or otherwise engage in any disruptive
    behaviour on any of our services, we may use your personal information from
    our security logs to stop such behaviour. Where we reasonably believe that
    you are or may be in breach of any applicable laws we may use your personal
    information to inform relevant third parties about the content and your
    behaviour.

12. Software that can be run from the ELIXIR Estonia webpages may be used by any
    individual for any purpose unless specific exceptions are stated on the web
    page.

13. ELIXIR Estonia does not accept responsibility for the consequences of any
    breach of the confidentiality of the ELIXIR Estonia site by third parties.
