---
hide:
  - navigation
  - toc
---
# Projects

## ELIXIR Estonia Collaborations

ELIXIR Estonia is collaborating with several Nodes from the ELIXIR network. Our
most active partners have been over the years, [EMBL-EBI](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/)
from UK, [CSC](https://www.csc.fi/) from Finland and [SIB](https://www.sib.swiss/)
from Switzerland who have both trained our members, shared their long-term
technical and organisatorial expertise and are always open for scientific and
technical collaborations. Our colleagues from Germany,
[de.NBI](https://www.denbi.de/)  and Belgium, [VIB](https://vib.be/) have
provided us tremendous help in setting up the Galaxy services for Estonian
researchers and SARS-CoV-2 data analysis.

Since 2016 we are also collaborating with Nordic e-Infrastructure Collaboration
(NeIC) to train together researchers in Estonia and Scandinavia.
[In January 2020](https://neic.no/news/2020/01/09/estonia-joins-neic/) Estonia
became an official member of NeIC. Estonian Node in NeIC is Estonian Scientific
Computing Infrastructure ([ETAIS](https://etais.ee/)).

---

## [European Genomic Data Infrastructure](https://gdi.onemilliongenomes.eu/)

The Genomic Data Infrastructure (GDI) project is enabling access to genomic and
related phenotypic and clinical data across Europe. It is doing this by
establishing a federated, sustainable and secure infrastructure to access the
data. It builds on the outputs of the
[Beyond 1 Million Genomes (B1MG)](https://b1mg-project.eu/)
project and is realising the ambition of the[1+ Million Genomes
(1+MG)](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/1-million-genomes)
initiative.

The GDI project aims to unlock a data network of over one million genome
sequences for research and clinical reference. This will create unprecedented
opportunities for transnational and multi-stakeholder actions in personalised
medicine for cancer, common, rare and infectious diseases as well as access to
a reference genome collection representing the European population ([Genome of
Europe](https://b1mg-project.eu/1mg/genome-europe)).

01.11.2022 - 31.10.2026

---

## [BY-COVID](https://by-covid.org/)

BY-COVID will build and expand upon the successful [COVID-19 Data
Platform](https://www.covid19dataportal.org/the-european-covid-19-data-platform),
a resource initiated in the early stages of the pandemic and led by EMBL-EBI.
Since its launch, many countries have established their own [national data
hubs](https://www.covid19dataportal.org/data-hubs), which ensures that data
produced locally can be instantaneously connected and shared with the main
COVID-19 Data Portal.

Rather than focus purely on providing technical solutions to the biological
data, BY-COVID will work with partners such as the Versatile emerging infectious
disease Observatory ([VEO](https://www.veo-europe.eu/)) and the Public Health
Information Research Infrastructure ([PHIRI](https://www.phiri.eu/)) to
incorporate data from a broader range of disciplines, including public health
and social sciences.

01.10.2021 – 30.09.2024

---

## [HealthyCloud](https://healthycloud.eu/)

The objective of HealthyCloud is to generate a number of guidelines,
recommendations and specifications that will enable distributed health research
across Europe in the form of a [Ready-to-implement
Roadmap](https://healthycloud.eu/healthycloud-roadmap). This roadmap together
with the feedback gathered from a broad range of stakeholders will be the basis
to produce the final HealthyCloud Strategic Agenda for the European Health
Research and Innovation Cloud (HRIC).

01.02.2021 – 31.08.2023

---

## Core Infrastructure / Tuumiktaristu

The aim of the core research infrastructure grants is to ensure the openness of
research infrastructures of national importance to public, private and third
sector users. Support is provided to cover the additional costs of research
infrastructures related to the availability of research infrastructures outside
the operator of the core infrastructure and the obligations arising from
international cooperation.

01.01.2021 – 31.12.2024

---

## [ELIXIR CONVERGE](https://elixir-europe.org/about-us/how-funded/eu-projects/converge)

ELIXIR-CONVERGE is a project funded by the European Commission to help
standardise life science data management across Europe. To achieve this
standardisation, the project will develop a data management toolkit
([RDMkit](https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/)) for life scientists.

The toolkit will help ensure more research data is in the public domain, which
will give scientists access to more data. This will allow them to discover new
insights into the challenges facing society, such as food security and health in
old age, and help stimulate innovation in biomedicine and biotechnology.

By connecting ELIXIR Nodes to provide FAIR data management as a service,
ELIXIR-CONVERGE will build national capacity and create a blueprint for
operating sustainable Nodes in distributed research infrastructures.

01.02.2020 – 31.07.2023

---

## [CINECA](https://www.cineca-project.eu/)

The rapid advances in molecular biology techniques such as DNA genotyping and
sequencing has enabled ever larger cohorts of human exomes and genomes to be
generated, facilitating study of the underlying causes of disease. It is
predicted that in the next five years through national scale healthcare
initiatives, an increasing number of large cohorts including complex variables
such as phenotypes, measurements and medical histories will be generated.

To maximise the impact of this data for researchers, healthcare, industry,
patients and funders, we have assembled a set of expert partners in resource
delivery who are embedded in the communities which generate, analyse,
standardise and share genomic data.

We currently operate the state of the art infrastructures, analyses, knowledge
discovery and data discovery platforms and translation to healthcare on which we
will build to deliver our vision of a federated solution enabling _**population
scale genomic and biomolecular data accessible across international borders
accelerating research and improving the health of individuals resident across
continents**_.

01.01.2019 – 31.12.2022

---

## Learning paths

With the growing number of life-science training resources currently available
through TeSS, it can often be a struggle to choose which may be the most
relevant to learning needs or an appropriate match to existing skills and
competency level.

Guidance is therefore needed to help users to identify which competencies they
need to acquire, which training resources will allow them to acquire such
competencies and which learning path they should follow in order to move from
their existing competency level to a higher one.

Therefore, the **aims** of this implementation study are to: 1) **identify
competency frameworks that are relevant to the ELIXIR user community**, in order
to derive a set of core competencies and a curriculum for bioinformatics and
data science, 2) **map ELIXIR training resources to such competencies** and
expose this information through TeSS, and 3) **build learning paths for selected
use cases**, and make them available in TeSS, to help guide users in moving from
one competency level to another by following such learning paths.

The study is a joint effort of ELIXIR UK (Gabriella Rustici, Terri Attwood,
Niall Beard), ELIXIR-NL (Celia Van Gelder), ELIXIR France (Victoria Dominguez
del Angel), ELIXIR Luxemburg (Roland Krause), **ELIXIR Estonia (Hedi Peterson)**,
ELIXIR Switzerland (Patricia Palagi), EMBL-EBI (Cath Brooksbank, Sarah Morgan),
ELIXIR Italy (Allegra Via), ELIXIR Finland (Eija Korpelainen), ELIXIR Belgium
(Alexander Botzki).

The study will also interact with ELIXIR Industry (develop learning path(s) that
specifically address the needs of industry users), global players in
bioinformatics (BioExcel, CORBEL, BD2K, H3ABionet, GOBLET) and data-science
(CODATA-RDA, EDISON, Software/Data Carpentry) training, and the Bioschemas
project (improve the metadata that are exposed through the Bioschemas
specifications for training materials).

01.06.2018 – 31.05.2019

---

## ELIXIR Integration from a User Perspective

The **goal** of this study **is to provide the life-scientist a powerful tool to
find and use ELIXIR resources** – across the spectrum – based on intuitive
graphical diagrams of the most prevalent scientific workflows.  

Currently, a scientist can use TeSS to find training events and materials and
then, in a separate search, use bio.tools to find relevant tools, and BioSharing
to find standards and databases. Linking TeSS and bio.tools to ELIXIR’s computer
resources via common workflow diagrams would enable end-users to discover and
learn about the prevalent bioinformatics workflows. This study will link TeSS
and bio.tools via most prevalent bioinformatics workflows and will lay the
foundation to incorporate other ELIXIR platforms in a later stage, thereby
providing an even more useful service for the researcher.

Eight ELIXIR nodes are involved in this study: Belgium (Frederik Coppens, lead),
UK (Terri Attwood), **Estonia (Hedi Peterson)**, Denmark (Jon Ison), Swiss
(Heinz Stockinger), EMBL-EBI (Sarah Morgan), Norway (Matus Kalas), France (Hervé
Menager).

01.10.2017 – 30.06.2018

---

## Estonian Life Science Infrastructure for Biological Information

ELIXIR (European Life Science Infrastructure for Biological information) is an
ESFRI infrastructure for biological data and bioinformatics research. Its goal
is to ensure free usage and continuous development of databases, software,
compute resources and user trainings. ELIXIR infrastructure is global, covering
a variety of life science data (human and other species DNA, RNA, proteins,
sequences, structures, molecules, pathways, publications etc) databases, tools,
compute resources, relevant standards and trainings. The distributed structure
aims to build common infrastructure based on separate but complementary
resources across Europe. This enables to develop and combine more easily needed
tools and resources and to ease researchers interpreting their results. ELIXIR
coordinates development of best practices and standards across and beyond Europe
and helps to implement these across the different countries. Estonia has joined
ELIXIR consortium under the name of **ELIXIR-Estonia** (ELIXIR-EE). ELIXIR-EE
allows Estonia to contribute to international bioinformatics infrastructure and
keep Estonia among the important countries driving the fast moving field.
ELIXIR-EE intends to unite individual tools and services developed in Estonia
and upgrade them into the core components of the European bioinformatics
infrastructure by ensuring common standards, and modern, high-quality services.
Together with ELIXIR partners in Europe, core services, technical infrastructure,
secure cloud solutions, standards and cooperation interoperability frameworks
are developed; communication with global communities of data management will be
promoted, training programs will be developed and organised. ELIXIR Estonia’s
task is to participate in international collaborations as well as to lay the
foundation for providing bioinformatics services in Estonia.

The project is supported through European Structural Funds with 1 284 564 euros.

01.03.2016 – 31.08.2022

---

## ELIXIR-EXCELERATE – Fast-track ELIXIR implementation and drive early user exploitation across the life-sciences

The life sciences are undergoing a transformation. Modern experimental tools
study the molecules, reactions, and organisation of life in unprecedented
detail. The precipitous drop in costs for high-throughput biology has enabled
European research laboratories to produce an ever-increasing amount of data.
Life scientists are rapidly generating the most complex and heterogeneous
datasets that science can currently imagine, with unprecedented volumes of
biological data to manage. Data will only generate long-term value if it is
Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-usable (FAIR). This requires a
scalable infrastructure that connects local, national and European efforts and
provides standards, tools and training for data stewardship. Formally
established as a legal entity in January 2014, ELIXIR – the European life
science Infrastructure for Biological Information – is a distributed
organisation comprising national bioinformatics research infrastructures and the
European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI). This coordinated infrastructure
includes data standards, exchange, interoperability, storage, security and
training. Recognising the importance of a data foundation for European life
sciences, the ESFRI and European Council named ELIXIR as one of Europe’s
priority Research Infrastructures. In response ELIXIR have developed
ELIXIR-EXCELERATE. The project will fast-track ELIXIR’s early implementation
phase by i) coordinate and enhance existing resources into a world-leading data
service for academia and industry, ii) grow bioinformatics capacity and
competence across Europe, and iii) complete the management processes needed for
a large distributed infrastructure. ELIXIR-EXCELERATE will deliver a step-change
in the life sciences. It will enable cost-effective and sustainable management
and re-use of data for millions of users across the globe and improve the
competitiveness of European life science industries through accessible data and
robust standards and tools.

01.09.2015 – 31.08.2019
