---
draft: false
date: 2024-02-05
authors:
  - Diana
categories:
  - DMP
  - DM courses
  - workshop

hide:
  - toc
---

# Bring your own DMP workshop - 1.03.2024, Tartu - Invite only

According to the Estonian Research Council funding agreement, all the projects that have started in 2022 have to submit a data management plan (DMP) within the first six months. Since this will be new for many researchers,  ELIXIR Estonia will do a data management writing course.
During the workshop, we will discuss the different aspects of the DMP and give more practical advice.  There will be 3-4 30-minute writing sessions where you can write your DMP. Also, if you have any questions, the organiser will help you as best as they can. 

<!-- more -->

## General info

Can attend only with an invite from ETAg. These will be small groups of a maximum of  7 people. 

* __Time:__ 1.03.2024 13:00-17:00
* __Type:__ Workshop
* __Language:__ English
* __Duration:__ 4h
* __Location:__ Delta building, Narva mnt 18 room 2049, Tartu
* __Audience:__ Data management plan writers.
* __Lecturers:__ Diana Pilvar, MSc


## Learning outcomes for the participants

* Describe the primary resources for data management
* List of available resources that assist in writing the DMP
* Explain what is needed to write in each section of the DMP

## Registration

We ask you to register responsibly. If you can't attend the lecture, please let us know as soon as possible via email (elixir@ut.ee).

__Register:__ https://forms.gle/bGofHDRCkKcAT7aJ9

---

In order to not miss out on a course next time, subscribe to our newsletter at  https://lists.ut.ee/wws/subscribe/elixir.news?previous_action=edit_list_request
Applications are accepted manually within a few days. 


